hey guys welcome to lingo marina a lot
of you dm me on instagram and if you
don't follow me on instagram it's lingo
marina
or a lot of you write comments here on
youtube saying
marina i've been learning english for
several years when i read things i
understand
the text i understand the meaning but
sometimes i listen to native speakers
and i don't understand them at all i
don't understand
and i try to speak like them but i can't
if this is something that you experience
this video is for you today we're going
to talk about a thing called
connected speech and this is what native
speakers do
all the time when they talk because some
words are pronounced
one way when they pronounce separately
but when they are
in a context when they're surrounded by
other words
their pronunciation changes and
today we're gonna dig into those rules
we're gonna
explore behind the scenes of
american accent and we're gonna explore
what native speakers do
to sound the way they sound and how you
can do the same
to sound more like an american if that's
your goal
so if you're interested smash the like
button and let's continue discussing
this topic in american english people
tend to avoid
non-essential words by making them
weak and by that i mean that there is no
stress
on those words when people talk let me
give you some examples so for example
fish and chips right three words
but when we talk we say fish and chips
in this way the word and
is in a weak form and basically we only
say in
fish and chips that's it fish and chips
please and this way
maybe you know what fish and chips is
but once people say fish and chips
you're like oh what was that
just because americans and native
speakers in general speak faster
they do things that are convenient for
them and a convenient thing
is to make prepositions auxiliary verbs
different helping words make them weaker
so that you don't
spend your energy you don't waste your
energy in emphasizing them
they're still there they still affect
the meaning but the way they're
pronounced is different
because they are made weak let me give
you another example
have you finished work so the emphasis
is on work here and have
is weak have you finished work compare
this to the answer
yes i have here have a strong
vivid it is not weak at all you have a
stress on it yes i have
so compare this have you finished work
yes i have
this is a very clear example of weak
word
she can speak spanish better than i can
so we have two cans in this sentence
the first can is not even pronounced as
can we say
she can speak spanish it's that's it we
even
emit a and this is what native speakers
do in weak forms
she can speak spanish but the next can
is strong she can speak spanish better
than i can
i can make him happier than she can so
if you learn this and if you start using
this
you will sound more like a native
speaker more like an american native
speaker because
in great britain what i notice is that
people
try to avoid weak forms they try to
emphasize
every single word the next thing that
native speakers do
is called linking this is when you kind
of sing
when i was learning my accent where i
was trying to
copy native speakers my teacher would
say you know marina you're good
at singing try to sing in english
because when you
sing a song you try to connect words
and this is what native speakers do they
are linking everything together
because if i speak like this this
doesn't sound natural
but if i speak like this it sounds
natural and
one word evolves from the other word a
very clear example
cats or dogs a native speaker would say
cats or dogs like sounds just like one
word but it's actually three words
oh cats or dogs uh dogs another great
example
is busy which means is
he busy but we actually emitted sound
h and we have easy busy you see what's
going on
is he busy the next thing is called
illusion
and this is when one sound is
substituted by another sound or
completely disappears from a word again
widely used in america in great britain
you would say interview
in america interview so t here just
disappears interview that's it
i would actually say it's substituted by
another n because this
n becomes a little longer interview
no t at all great interview
same example center american
for center so t
is substituted with this longer n and
you get
center not center and centa
is very british learning center
wanted instead of wanted butter
instead of butter and this is another
thing americans do when you have double
tea
it is substituted by d and it's again
called illusion butter not
butter but again if you want to sound
more british butter
is the pronunciation you would go for
next door this is where we have both
linking and illusion because next
door is the way we would
pronounce it if we were at school and
the teacher told us pronounce everything
but if we want to sound more american
we'll say next door
where the t disappears and two words get
linked together
oh next door and another great example
most common just listen to what's
happening here
most common t disappears
the words are linked together most
common that's it again the way you
practice it
is that you just listen to people and
you kind of have this in mind what you
just learned
when you have this in mind and you start
noticing it it will become
a lot easier for you to understand
native speakers and once you start
noticing those things
the way native speakers use them you
will start using them yourself
and your speech would become even better
assimilation
i'm pretty sure a lot of you guys love
american songs
and you hear people saying don'tcha
want you and you're like what does that
mean we didn't learn that at school
let me explain this assimilation is when
two sounds combine
producing a new sound so instead of
saying
don't you americans say don't chat again
this is not like every american would do
that but this is very common
and you would hear that in pop culture
you would hear teenagers uh do that
you won't really hear a professor at
stanford do that because they try to
speak
a more formal language what we're
learning here is more
you know common thing so don't you would
be replaced by doncha
won't you would be replaced by wancha
the same with
me too it was very nice to meet you it's
very
kind of british slash formal was great
at meecha
this is an american version and very
very
i'd say california when you're talking
to your friends you'll say it was
great to meet you did you i can't even
pronounce it the way i would pronounce
it back when i was like at school
did you people don't really say that
they say did you
again this new sound between the two
words
if you only think that people are
emitting sounds they actually add new
ones
this is called intrusion let me give you
a couple of examples
do it is pronounced as do it
so we kind of have this extra letter
between the two words
uh w and it's pronounced as you do
it how did you do it do it he
asked again you can say he asked but
you would say he asked me to go out
we're singing
in a language to sound more natural so
this he asked
we have this extra y between these two
words and this is why it sounds like
he asked he asked and the last but not
the least
there are pairs of words that we
use together very often like social
life but we don't say social life we say
social life because we just connect them
and we make
one word out of two words when we talk
and
this just helps us sound more natural
social life
what about your social life woke up
let's just say you woke up pet turtle
here we have
two tees that are together we just
connect them pet turtle
that's it we got a new pet turtle yeah
if you think
that you need more tricks like these i
highly recommend the course that
a teacher who is not a native speaker
but who sounds just like a native
speaker and nobody can actually tell
that he wasn't born in america
he has put together this course for
linguatrip and i would highly recommend
you to take this course it is called
how to speak like a native speaker and
this course is full of tricks
like these and in this course you would
learn them
you would practice them and you would
hear a lot more examples that i've given
you today
so if you are on track to speak like a
native speaker and to understand
uh natives then the link will be below
it's gonna wait there for you
please take this course and improve your
speech thank you so much for watching
this video up to the very end guys hit
subscribe to subscribe this channel
in order to not miss my next videos and
i will see you very soon
on this channel and on my instagram
lingo marina thank you and bye